UTY-1914: Refresh logging docs section (#1058)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: docs/reference/concepts/logging.md

<%(TOC)%>

# Logging

The SpatialOS GDK for Unity provides a [`ILogDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/i-log-dispatcher) interface for logging, which gives more flexibility to handle logs separately in different workers and allows you to attach more context to your logs. 

> There are two implementations of this interface in the Core package:

Author: Hmm it doesn't really give you any information and pulls you away from this page. Unsure 🤔

*  The [`LoggingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/logging-dispatcher), which logs to the Unity console.
*  The [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher), which logs to the Unity console and sends it to the SpatialOS Console.

> All workers in the FPS Starter Project and the Blank Project use the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) by default.

## Setting up a log dispatcher

When you create a worker using the [`WorkerConnector`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/worker-connector), you pass in an `ILogDispatcher` instance. This associates the `ILogDispatcher` instance with that worker.

```csharp
private async void Start()
{
    var builder = new SpatialOSConnectionHandlerBuilder()
        .SetConnectionParameters(CreateConnectionParameters(WorkerUtils.UnityClient));

>         .SetConnectionFlow(new ReceptionistFlow(CreateNewWorkerId(WorkerUtils.UnityClient)))

Reviewer: `;` is on the wrong line

    // Associate a new ForwardingDispatcher instance with this worker.
    await Connect(builder, new ForwardingDispatcher()).ConfigureAwait(false);
}

> 

Reviewer: nit line

```

> This instance handles all logging from the Core and Feature Modules for that worker and it is available for you to use through the methods described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This instance handles all logging from the Core and Feature Modules for that worker, and is available for you to use through the methods described below.
```

## Accessing the log dispatcher

> There are a few ways you can access the `ILogDispatcher` instance that is associated with your worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few ways to access the `ILogDispatcher` instance that is associated with your worker.
```
?

Reviewer 2: would prefer the current version as it's usually better to include the reader

Author: I agree with @jessicafalk

### In a MonoBehaviour

If your GameObject is linked to a SpatialOS entity through the [GameObject Creation Feature Modules]({{urlRoot}}/modules/game-object-creation/overview), you can either:

> Require the `ILogDispatcher`. This is injected when the `MonoBehaviour` is enabled:

Author: We can't have code snippets with lists. I tried. Improbadoc breaks hard. 

It could be headers, or bold? No strong preference from me

    {
        logger = World.GetExistingSystem<WorkerSystem>().LogDispatcher;
        logger.HandleLog(...);
    }

    ...
}
```

## Using the log dispatcher

The dispatcher provides a single `HandleLog` function, which takes two arguments:

1. `LogType`, which specifies the verbosity level of the log (e.g. `UnityEngine.LogType.Error`)
2. `LogEvent`, which stores the message, structured logging data, and the context of the log. See [the API documentation]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/log-event) for usage details.

For example:

```csharp
logger.HandleLog(LogType.Error, 
    new LogEvent("Custom error message.")
        .WithField(LoggingUtils.LoggerName, LoggerName)
        .WithField(LoggingUtils.EntityId, entityId)
        .WithField("CustomKey", "CustomValue"));
```

### The `ForwardingDispatcher`

The `ForwardingDispatcher` converts the Unity `LogType` enum to the SpatialOS `LogLevel` enum using the following table:

| Unity | SpatialOS |
| --- | --- |
| `LogType.Exception` | `LogLevel.Error` |
| `LogType.Error` | `LogLevel.Error` |
| `LogType.Assert` | `LogLevel.Error` |
| `LogType.Warning` | `LogLevel.Warning` |
| `LogType.Log` | `LogLevel.Info` |

> > **Note:** By default, messages sent with the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) with the log level `LogType.Log` are not sent to SpatialOS. You can change this by instantiating the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) with a different `minimumLogLevel` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** By default, messages with log level `LogType.Log`  and sent using the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) are not forwarded to SpatialOS. You can change this by instantiating the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) with a different `minimumLogLevel` parameter.
```

The `ForwardingDispatcher` recognises two special structured logging keys that can be used with the `LogEvent.WithField(string key, object value)` method:

* `LoggingUtils.LoggerName`, which specifies where the log was sent from.

> * `LoggingUtils.EntityId`, which links the log to a specific entity. This lets you filter for a particular entity's logs using the Logger.

Reviewer 2: needs a link or description of what the "Logger" is

Author: Yeah.. this was elsewhere in the doc, I have no idea why its called this 😕

> Other context variables are formatted into a string and sent with the log message as normal.

Reviewer 2: define normal ;)

Author: > conforming to a standard; usual, typical, or expected.

Author: Ended up removing this sentence as I don't think it actually adds anything.

I also don't want to document the log format just yet

## Creating your own log dispatcher

To create your own log dispatcher, create a new class which implements [`ILogDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/i-log-dispatcher):

```csharp
public class MyCustomDispatcher: ILogDispatcher
{
    public Worker Worker { get; set; }

    public string WorkerType { get; set; }

    public void HandleLog(LogType type, LogEvent logEvent)
    {

>         // Handle logs however you please

Reviewer 2: lol

    }
}
```

> To use this dispatcher in a specific worker, provide it as an argument when calling `Connect` in the worker connector as [described above](#setting-up-a-log-dispatcher).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this dispatcher in a specific worker, provide it as an argument when calling `Connect` in your worker connector as [described above](#setting-up-a-log-dispatcher).
```

There are two implementations of this interface in the Core package:

*  The [`LoggingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/logging-dispatcher), which logs to the Unity console.
*  The [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher), which logs to the Unity console and sends it to the SpatialOS Console.

> All workers in the FPS Starter Project and the Blank Project use the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) by default.

## Setting up a log dispatcher

When you create a worker using the [`WorkerConnector`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/worker-connector), you pass in an `ILogDispatcher` instance. This associates the `ILogDispatcher` instance with that worker.

```csharp
private async void Start()
{
    var builder = new SpatialOSConnectionHandlerBuilder()
        .SetConnectionParameters(CreateConnectionParameters(WorkerUtils.UnityClient))
        .SetConnectionFlow(new ReceptionistFlow(CreateNewWorkerId(WorkerUtils.UnityClient)));

    // Associate a new ForwardingDispatcher instance with this worker.
    await Connect(builder, new ForwardingDispatcher()).ConfigureAwait(false);
}
```

> This instance handles all logging from the Core and Feature Modules for that worker and is available for you to use through the methods described below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This instance handles all logging from the Core and Feature Modules for that worker and is available for you to use through the methods described below:
```

Author: I actually think this should be a full stop rather than a colon

Author: ```suggestion
This instance handles all logging from the Core and Feature Modules for that worker and is available for you to use through the methods described below.
```

    }
}
```

### In the ECS

You can access the dispatcher through the [`WorkerSystem`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/worker-system):

```csharp
public class MySystem : ComponentSystem 
{
    private ILogDispatcher logger;

    protected override void OnCreate()
    {
        logger = World.GetExistingSystem<WorkerSystem>().LogDispatcher;
        logger.HandleLog(...);
    }

    ...
}
```

## Using the log dispatcher

The dispatcher provides a single `HandleLog` function, which takes two arguments:

1. `LogType`, which specifies the verbosity level of the log (e.g. `UnityEngine.LogType.Error`)
2. `LogEvent`, which stores the message, structured logging data, and the context of the log. See [the API documentation]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/log-event) for usage details.

For example:

```csharp
logger.HandleLog(LogType.Error, 
    new LogEvent("Custom error message.")
        .WithField(LoggingUtils.LoggerName, LoggerName)
        .WithField(LoggingUtils.EntityId, entityId)
        .WithField("CustomKey", "CustomValue"));
```

### The `ForwardingDispatcher`

The `ForwardingDispatcher` converts the Unity `LogType` enum to the SpatialOS `LogLevel` enum using the following table:

> | Unity               | SpatialOS          |

Reviewer 2: so nice! :D

| ---                 | ---                |
| `LogType.Exception` | `LogLevel.Error`   |
| `LogType.Error`     | `LogLevel.Error`   |
| `LogType.Assert`    | `LogLevel.Error`   |
| `LogType.Warning`   | `LogLevel.Warning` |
| `LogType.Log`       | `LogLevel.Info`    |

> **Note:** By default, messages with log level `LogType.Log`  and sent using the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) are not forwarded to SpatialOS. You can change this by instantiating the [`ForwardingDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/forwarding-dispatcher) with a different `minimumLogLevel` parameter.

The `ForwardingDispatcher` recognises two special structured logging keys that can be used with the `LogEvent.WithField(string key, object value)` method:

* `LoggingUtils.LoggerName`, which specifies where the log was sent from.
* `LoggingUtils.EntityId`, which links the log to a specific entity. This lets you filter for a particular entity's logs using the [Logger](https://docs.improbable.io/reference/<%(Var key="worker_sdk_version")%>/shared/operate/logs#cloud-deployments).

## Creating your own log dispatcher

> To create your own log dispatcher, create a new class which implements [`ILogDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/i-log-dispatcher):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create your own log dispatcher, create a new class which implements the [`ILogDispatcher`]({{urlRoot}}/api/core/i-log-dispatcher):
```
